# PoP2Coursework2
Principles of Programming 2 Coursework 2 programs. 8 programs in C &amp; Java to solve some simple problems.

Q1. Implement the Cocktail Shaker sort algorithm (see https://en.wikipedia. org/wiki/Cocktail_shaker_sort) for a list of positive integers in C. Your al- gorithm should work for arrays of 100 randomly generated integers. The random numbers can either be generated by hand or using a simple pseudo random num- ber generator.
Q2. Implement a quick sort algorithm for a list of names in Java.
Q3. Implement your own Hash Table in C for storing and searching for names i.e. strings or char arrays. Your Hash Table implementation should have the following interface written below in pseduocode. Note: how you define the structures, functions, hashing algorithm and the limit (if any) of the number of items that can be stored in the Hash Table etc. is up to you.
void add(name);
void remove(name); boolean search(name);
Q4. Implement your own XOR Linked List in Java capable of storing names. Your implementation should have the following method, written below in pse- duocode,. Note: how you define the methods and classes needed to implement you XOR Linked List etc. is up to you.
public public public public
void insertAfter(String after, String newObj) void insertBefore(String before , String newObj) String removeAfter(String after)
String removeBefore(String before)
NOTE: For questions 2 to 4 you should test your algorithms with the list of 5000+ names provided.
3
Q5. Implement an algorithm in C which given a block of text as input, redacts all words from a given set of “redactable” words. For example, given the block of text,
The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog
and the redactable set of words
the output text should be
the, jumps, lazy
*** quick brown fox ***** over *** **** dog
Note that the number of stars in the redacted text is the same as the number of letters in the word that has been redacted, and that capitalization is ignored. You should not use any of the string libraries to answer this question. You should also test your program using the example files provided.
Q6. Implement in Java a similar algorithm to that in Q5 i.e. given a block of text your algorithm should be able to redact words from a given set. However, in this implementation of the algorithm all redactable words will be proper nouns (i.e. a name used for an individual person, place, or organisation, spelled with an initial capital letter) and your algorithm should take into account that the list of redactable words might not be complete. For example, given the block of text,
It was in July, 1805, and the speaker was the well-known Anna Pavlovna Scherer, maid of honor and favorite of the Empress Marya Fedorovna. With these words she greeted Prince Vasili Kuragin, a man of high rank and impor- tance, who was the first to arrive at her reception. Anna Pavlovna had had a cough for some days. She was, as she said, suffering from la grippe; grippe being then a new word in St. Petersburg, used only by the elite.
and the redactable set of words
Anna Pavlovna Scherer, St. Petersburg, Marya Fedorovna
the output text should be
It was in ****, 1805, and the speaker was the well-known **** ******** *******, maid of honor and favorite of the ******* ***** *********. With these words she greeted ****** ****** *******, a man of high rank and im- portance, who was the first to arrive at her reception. **** ******** had had a cough for some days. She was, as she said, suffering from la grippe; grippe being then a new word in *** **********, used only by the elite.
You should test your program using the example files provided. 4

Q7. Implement a Columnar Transposition Cipher in C to encrypt a message of any length. A Columnar Transposition Cipher is transposition cipher that follows a simple rule for mixing up the characters in the plaintext to form the ciphertext.
As an example, to encrypt the message ATTACKATDAWN with the key- word KEYS, we first write out our message as shown below,
KEYS ATTA
CKAT DAWN
Note: if the message to encode does not fit into the grid, you should pad the message with x’s or random characters for example, ATTACKNOW with the keyword KEYS might look like below,
KEYS ATTA CKNO WXXX
Once you have constructed your table, the columns are now reordered such that the letters in the keyword are ordered alphabetically,
EKSY TAAT
KCTA ADNW
The ciphertext is now read off along the columns, so in our example above, the ciphertext is TAATKCTAADNW
You should demonstrate your implementation by encrypting the file in the folder Q7 using the keyword - LOVELACE.
                  5

Q8. You are given the following information, but you may prefer to do some research for yourself.
• 1 Jan 1900 was a Monday.
• Thirty days has September, April, June and November. All the rest have thirty-one, saving February alone, which has twenty-eight, rain or shine. And on leap years, twenty-nine.
• A leap year occurs on any year evenly divisible by 4, but not on a century unless it is divisible by 400.
How many Tuesdays fell on the first of the month during the twentieth cen- tury (1 Jan 1901 to 31 Dec 2000)?
Note, this problem is inspired by Project Euler so, as stated in the rules of Project Euler, your solution should return an answer under 60 seconds.
